Welcome back everyone in the last few lessons we've really optimized our front end reacted what we want
to do now is actually put this live to Heroku and by doing so we'll actually notice that there's something
particular about Heroku that makes it so we have to add another optimization but I'm always a fan of
seeing the problem before showing you the solution.
So let's see it first.
We're going to do is go back to our terminal and update Heroku with our new code.
SO WHAT WE'RE GONNA DO IS WE'RE GONNA SAY GET add dash a right get commit dash and adding performance
optimizations to code base with react lazy suspense and memo.
Now when you make this push you might have to reconnect your Heroku project if you've cloned and then
use a project from one of the github links that I've sent you.
This is important because your project with Heroku is actually not connected to the cloned account.
So if that's the case please check the Heroku deployment video again to see how to link a Heroku project
on your CLIA to your actual project profile.
So with that in mind I'm just going to actually run it now with get push Heroku M. So this will push
my code now and initialize a new build.
Now as you remember this actually takes some time.
So I'm just going to speed through this process until we hit actually a certain portion of the build
that is gonna be interesting so now's a good time for us to jump in and actually take a look at this
statement right here.
So we'll see that what Heroku did here was run our ReACT built script.
Building our actual project for the final deployed application.
You'll see that these chunks are actually the chunks of our application that are being split into where
we added our chunking code which was where we did our lazy loading.
What's interesting to note is that this is the initial chunk which includes all of our libraries and
dependencies those subsequent chunks are the chunks related to the actual applications that we broke
into our laser loaded routes but you'll see that here it says file sizes after GS it.
But what is Jesus.
Jesus is actually a compression strategy that the back end servers do.
So that when they pass it through HDTV s to from the server to our client it's in a smaller package
where it gets unzipped in the actual client browser at that point.
It will be the full size that the actual project is of each of these bundles but you'll see that these
are the size of that we should be expecting to 20 kilobytes some point two for some point to one and
then really small sizes afterwards.
So once this is done let's reopen our project in our actual Heroku link and let's see how long it actually
took so let's force a hard refresh go to our network tab.
So here when we look at the actual chunks we'll see for some reason they're way way bigger than what
we were told when our build script ran on our Heroku built.
We see that the initial chunk that was supposed to be two hundred and twenty six kilobytes is seven
hundred and seventy six kilobytes our main chunk is twenty seven point four kilobytes when I should've
been seven kilobytes and then these which should have been more negligible one killed by or four hundred
bytes even are still in kilobytes sizes.
So why is that that these are bigger.
Well it turns out that the reason for this is because Heroku does not offer Jeez tipping right out the
gate in order for us to do it.
We have to manually apply Jesus Bing to our Express server.
So this is actually another benefit we have for writing our own back and express server which serves
our client at any of the reps that we did it's actually very easy for us to do this in fact all we need
to do is add in a library that express maintains themselves to provide jeez that being to Art Node server.
So all we have to do here is we simply Jaan add compression the compression library is a library that
allows us to compress and GS up all of the files and chunks that we end up sending out from our server.
So now what we do in order to use it is inside of our code we go to our server just file and we create
a new concept called compression which requires compression the new compression library that we just
install and then what we do is inside of all this after use we're also going to say app use compression.
And now if we save let's just re push this up again.
So let's do get out again get commit adding compression library for GS bang on Heroku and then let's
get push Heroku master one more time and again I'm gonna speed through the section because this is going
to take the same amount of time as last time.
So we've finished our build we've updated our Heroku.
Let's go back to our Heroku account and let's do a hard refresh and then let's look back at our network
tab and now we'll see that our chunks are definitely the sizes that they should be.
So here we'll say our chunk jazz is now two hundred and twenty two kilobytes which matches what the
build script was telling us it should be.
And we see that our main chunk is seven kilobytes.
So now our code is actually pretty optimized.
It should be pretty fast because everything is pretty much the base size that it needs to be on the
wire.
The only thing might be the images are a little large but honestly because we're an e-commerce platform
there are more complicated advanced techniques of optimizing these images.
That is not really something that we as react developers need to do.
This is generally something that could be done by a designer or somebody that is more familiar with
actually optimizing images but with that in mind we have optimized our application quite significantly
now and our size and speed should be much faster with our actual final deployed application.
So again it was very easy to just add in Jesus being to our Express server for Heroku simply using the
compression library.
And with that we're going to move into one more almost paradigm when it comes to performance which is
progressive web apps.
So we'll talk about that in the next lesson.